If you plan on going to college and you need to take out a big loan to
do it, my suggestion is, make sure that your future job prospects align
with the amount of money that you're taking. If you're going to
be an engineer and engineers make, you know, decent amounts of money
depending on what type of job you get, then going to an expensive
private university for four years might be worth it. That four year
university could be the opportunity to get that high paying job. There
are many high paying humanities jobs out there. For many people,
the jobs aren't as salary intensive as engineering jobs. So, if that's
the case for you, then taking out a big student loan could affect
you so far into the future that it might not be worth it. My suggestion
for you in that case would be to think about other opportunities
to pay for your education during that time such as scholarships, such
as working part-time, such as going to summer school where the classes
are cheaper, ways to cut down on the total cost. Or even going
to community college, that's another way to, kind of, cut the cost
in half.